Abraham SHOOK was born on 3 Feb 1764 in Lyles Creek, Lincoln County, North Carolina.  He died in Mar 1832 in Iredell County, North Carolina.  Abraham Shook was married to Patricia (Patsy) Anderson or Henderson. He died abt March 1832. His will is dated 10 January 1832. His estate was inventoried in April 1832 and probate was May 1832. I have a copy of each of these documents that I obtained from the North Carolina State Archives.

His 10 children are named in the will.

Observations and comments on will of Abraham Shook:

Since it was common practice in the past to give one child (usually the first male) the mother’s maiden name as a middle name, was Patricia’s maiden name Henderson and not Anderson?

Sally is not mentioned in the will as a beneficiary of any part of the estate. She is mentioned only in identifying the mother of the grandchildren who were to receive $1 each. Was she deceased at the time that the will was written? I believe so.

Children are usually listed in order of their birth and in some instants in older times by sex.

John Henderson Shook: I believe that John Henderson was the oldest of all of the children. I believe that I have found him in the 1850 and 1860 censuses and they give his age as 50 and 59 respectively. This would make his birth year as 1799-1801. He married Ann Turbyfill on 18 Sep 1830. Iredell County land records show a grant of land to him from Abraham in 1830. Was this a wedding present and his share of the estate? He was given $1.25 in the will. He granted land to Elkanah L. Shuford in 1835.
 
Riley Abraham Shook: Riley is listed second in the list of males. Since he was named executor of the estate he would have been at least 21 years of age at the time the will was written, 10 Jan 1832. That would mean that he was born no later than 1810. He inherited his father’s land in 1832. Land records show him granting land to Jacob Shuford twice in 1835.

Patricia (Patsy) Anderson: Since he was charged with allowing his mother to live on the property for the remainder of her life, does this mean that she was deceased at that time?
 
A list of the propery belonging to his estate dated April 1832 includes 100 acres of river land and 96 acres of ridge land that had been conveyed from George McReady, farming utensils, household furniture, kitchen furniture, livestock, crops and money and notes. The list was made by the executor of his estate, his son, Riley Abraham. He notes that "All the money was silver coin in three purses -- My father some few days before his death mentioned to me in the presence of my Mother and Sister that nothing about his money was mentioned in his written will -- therefore he willed the disposal of his money in the following manner -- One purse which contained his small change he give to my Mother -- one purse containing one hundred dollars he give to my youngest brother Robert and directed me to put Robert's money out on contract until he become of age -- One purse containing eighty nine dollars he directed me out of that money in the first place to pay his debts -- the balance if any to divide it equally among the family. One note on John Bitsel for sixteen dollars - one note on Benjamin Hankins for two dollars and fifty cents -- Both of those persons have left this part of the county and are considered insolvent." [From Iredell County Estates, North Carolina Archives, 
Raleigh, North Carolina].

The will itself gives all the kitchen furniture and the loom and utensils to his wife as well as the house, furniture and farm for the duration of her widowhood. To his grandchildren he willed one dollar each and indicated them to be the children of this daughter Sally Walker. To his daughters Nancy, Mary, Elizabeth and Amy, each one bed and bedding, five dollars money and a spinning wheel. To his daughter Malvina, one bed and bedding, one spinning wheel and ten dollars money. To his son John Henderson Shook, he left one dollar and twenty-five cents. To his son Riley Abraham Shook he left all his land in Iredell County, stock, farming utensils and crops. To his son Josiah Shook he willed twenty-five dollars and to his youngest son Robert he left fifty dollars to be paid to him at tweny-one years of age. Riley Abraham was also given the duty of educating Robert as well as feeding and clothing him until such time as he has learned a trade. A rifle was also given to Riley and Robert each. The will is dated 10 January 1832 as was witnessed by John Moore. 

[Willi of Abraham Shook, being #118, p 435, Iredell County Estates.]

His brother Andrew witnessed a land grant for Abraham in 1794 in Haywood County.

File contributed for use in USGenWeb Archives by:
William L Shook w.l.shook@verizon.net March 4, 2010, 10:51 am

Source: North Carolina State Archives
Written: January 10, 1832

The Will of Abraham Shook
(Transcribed by William L. Shook from photo copy received from the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, North Carolina State Archives)

“In the name of God Amen – I Abraham Shook of the County of Iredell and the State of North Carolina being sick and weak of body, but of sound and disposing mind and memory, thanks be to God for the same, and calling to mind the uncertainty of this life, do make and ordain this my last will and testimony of this life in the manner and form following below:
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my loving wife Patsy Shook all the kitchen furniture likewise the loom and utensils belonging thereto to her and her heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I lend to my loving wife Patsy Shook during her natural life of widowhood My House and farm on which I now live with household furniture, stock of every kind with the farming utensils so far as shall be necessary for her support.
Item.  I give and bequeath to my grandchildren, my daughter Sally Walker's children one dollar to each child to them and their heirs 
forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my daughter Nancy one bed and bedding likewise five dollars in money also a spinning wheel and cards to her and her heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my daughter Mary- one bed and bedding one wheel and cards and five dollars in money, to her and her heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my daughter Elizabeth one bed and bedding one wheel and cards and five dollars in money to her and her heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my daughter Amy one bed and bedding one wheel and cards and five dollars in money to her and her heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my daughter Melvina one bed and bedding one wheel and cards and ten dollars in money to her and her heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my son John Henderson Shook one dollar and twenty-five cents current money – to him and his heirs forever —
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my son Rily (sic) Abraham Shook at my death, all my lands in Iredell County, all my stock of horses, cows hogs and sheep, all the farming utensils wagon and gear, still and vessels, with all the crops of any kind whatever to be his and his heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my son Josiah Shook at my death twenty-five dollars in money to him and his heirs forever ~
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my son Robert Shook fifty dollars in money to be paid to him at twenty-one years of age by my Executor and in consideration of this foregoing bequeath of my lands etc to my son Rily Abraham Shook my will and desire is that he this said Rily shall be at the expense of schooling his brother Robert to the Rule of Three, Also to find him in all necessary clothing and his board until twenty-one years of age. But should Robert prefer learning some trade to learning farther than the Rule of Three, in that case he is to be allowed to go to learn the trade he may choose, at the age of nineteen years, Rily still to find his clothes but not his board, any leisure time Robert may have from school is to be imployed (sic) in Rily’s service – and further, in
consideration of the forgoing bequeath made to my son Rily he is to make good all foregoing bequeaths as specified in each particular item as therein mentioned.
 
Item.  Give and bequeath to my son Rily Abraham Shook my new rifle gun to him and his heirs forever.
 
Item.  I give and bequeath to my son Robert Shook my old rifle gun to him and his heirs forever ~
 
Lastly. I constitute and appoint my son Rily Abraham Shook my whole and sole executor of this my last will and testament. In testimony thereof I have here unto set my hand and seal this Tenth day of January one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two – Signed sealed and declared in the presents of
 							His X mark
					       Abraham Shook
John Moore
Woodson Howard”  Abraham SHOOK and Martha (Patsy) HENDERSON were married about 1805 in North Carolina.
